the third part of TOEFL test is speaking
and this was the most difficult part for
me I don't have any problems with
speaking and I owe that to my language
abroad experience because I used to go
to England to study English then I went
to Canada to study English so I had a
lot of practice with native speakers I
talked a lot but joyful is just
ridiculous because they ask you to talk
about some particular things that you
never talk about and then you have a
very limited time you have 15 seconds to
think and 60 seconds to talk so my life
hack for speaking was to just learn some
templates for every single question
because they have six questions and
every question follow the same plan for
every test and so I'm going to give you
the templates that I've used I'm going
to tell you how these questions is
speaking and structured I also wanted to
add that was really afraid of this part
I've listened to some feedback from
people who I actually check the toy for
speaking part and they gave lower scores
to people who mumble to people who spoke
too slowly I'm like what what is just
low what is too fast how do I know
and then even native speakers get
confused and also what's surprising for
me that I had to talk about the topics I
would never ever discuss in my life like
why don't you like rock music give two
examples I don't know I don't like I
just don't like it and then you have 15
seconds to think of those greatest
examples and so this is how we move to
the first question actually they would
ask you some question and you would have
to give two examples why you don't like
rock music why you like your city why
you want to travel to the United States
blah blah blah sometimes these questions
don't have to do anything with real life
joyful people advise you not to line
these questions but seriously I don't
know if I never ever think about this
topic if I don't have any
examples in my mind the only thing left
for me is to lie if you want to to make
the sound more true to life I would
advise you to remember your friends so
just imagine your friend who one who
went for example to a rock music concert
and he came back with the with an
incredible headache and he hated it and
this is why you don't like rock music
you don't even want to make yourself
listen to it sorry guys who loved rock
music it's just an example it is not
real live I just wanted to to show you
how it works in joyful so don't be
afraid to lie I mean they tell you not
to lie but it's better to say something
just to stay silent so talk about your
friends talk about your relatives or
just think of some examples that come to
your mind and I would really really
advise you to use all the bridge worse
as they name them like in my opinion it
is great to travel to the United States
because and then you give two very
specific examples like first because New
York is the greatest city in the world
and it's located in the United States
that's why I want to go to the United
States and see New York second United
States has all the climates that you can
think of they have Florida they have
Washington they have Alaska that's why I
want to experience the country that has
it all sometimes if you have some time
left like if you have five seconds left
you can just say that's why I think so
oh this summarizes my opinion just to
finalize what you just said also you
forget to say that don't be afraid
because I was so nervous during my
speaking part I forgot the majority of
things I've learned yes this happens and
I didn't finish many of my questions so
I just said now I am two examples and
that was it at what I just went silent
but they didn't reduce my mark because
of that and another thing that happened
to me I had 10 seconds left
and I was like oh my god 10 seconds left
I have to say something she's like um I
was started thinking I was like ah and
then well I didn't say anything and it
was just uh was fun and finalized my
answer and it was like what did I just
do because I thought they would just
reduce my mark but I actually scored 30
out of 30 so I didn't spoil my results
first and second questions about those
random topics and the best way to
prepare for them is just to ask your
friend your boyfriend your girlfriend to
name you some topics that you never
discussed because you have to train your
brain to come up with weird examples the
third question is easier because they
actually give you the text and they give
you someone's opinion on the text and
you just have to summarize what you've
heard and the template for that would be
the reading states that and you have the
quick summary of the text the speaker's
opinion is that bla bla bla and you give
the first example that he provides in
his speech and the second example and
that's it
the great thing is that this pattern is
the same for every third question in
total speaking part the fourth question
you would get a text about something for
example top universities in the United
States and then you would get a speaker
who provides a specific example of top
university for example Stanford and what
you have to do is summarize what you've
read in the text and what you've heard
and so you say the article is about top
universities in the United States which
are defined so you have to kind of
include a short definition of what is
the text about so top universities are
defined by the level of income of
graduates as example and then you go to
what the speaker says and you say the
speaker provides Stanford as an example
of top universities because first
Stanford graduates get get the highest
salary
second Stanford gets a lot of funding
from successful entrepreneurs this is
just an example but this is how it
should
like and again if you have some time in
the end you just say this is why
Stanford is a top university in the
United States and in the world just to
conclude what you just heard and said
the fifth question is my favorite
because it doesn't cover those random
topics like ancient things like
spaceships or whatever it just covers
real life so you'd have nobody you would
have two students that are discussing
some problem for example one student
complains to another that he has a very
loud neighbor and he doesn't know what
to do and the second student would come
up with two solutions for his friend he
would say for example you could argue
with your neighbor and tell him to move
out because he's not following the rules
of the residents and the second solution
is to just talk to the residents manager
and this is the gives you pretty much
the idea of how the answers look like
and I would advise you to always choose
the second answer because it is normally
the best one and it saves you a lot of
time on thinking which answer is the
best so just train yourself to selecting
the second answer and providing the
reasons for it and what you have to say
in the fifth question is that you
discuss the problem you state the
problem you say the problem that the
student has is that his neighbor is
still out to my mind the second solution
talking to the residents manager is the
best because first he wouldn't have to
argue with his neighbor second the
residents manager always comes up with
better ideas and how to solve the
problem and he has to be aware of what's
happening in the residence this is why I
think the second solution is the best so
by using this simple template you will
reduce a lot of thinking time and you
would have more time to concentrate on
the reasons themselves because you would
have all the structure in your head and
the sixth question is very scientific so
for example you would have text about
reptiles and then you would hear
professor talking about reptiles and
provided examples for example you would
talk about snakes and turtles and what
you have to do is somehow link snakes
and turtles to the text and explain why
the first and the second of reptiles and
so you answer should look like the
article is about different kinds of
reptiles which are defined as blah blah
blah and then the professor provides two
specific examples of reptile first is
totals because they have this qualities
of reptiles and second are snakes
because they also have these qualities
of reptiles and this is how you come to
an end of the speaking part and you just
you know just relax but the key thing to
remember for this part is to just
memorize all the templates actually took
a piece of paper with all the templates
with me and I read it before the test of
course you're not allowed to read
anything during the test but just having
it with me and refreshing what I've
learned before the test I think it
really helped me passing the speaking
part okay so now we arrived at the last
part of toy file which is essays writing
you have two essays first s it doesn't
give you a lot of freedom for
imagination because you just get a text
about some phenomena there are some
reasons to explain this phenomena for
example the text says that internet is
bad the first paragraph talks about that
Internet has both during the last years
and the second paragraph talks about
Internet damage for health the third
paragraph talks about internet damage
for relationship and fourth paragraph
talks about you know internet scams like
people laundering money or stealing
money from each other and then they
would have some professional talking
about the same topic but actually
refusing every see every single argument
that is stated in the text for example
you would hear a professor from a
university who says that actually
Internet is great and he would provide
you examples that would be the opposite
to what you've read in the text for
example he would say that internet
actually actually helps relationships
that recent studies have provided data
that
Internet doesn't really hurt health like
radiation from computers doesn't really
hurt health and he would also say that
Internet actually allowed money to
travel from one country to another and
allowed businesses to thrive
internationally and your task is to
summarize all of that in your essay that
means you would have to explain what the
text is about and what Professor opinion
is and every single paragraph will be
dedicated to comparing the thoughts in
the text and comparing what professor
says about about the facts in the text
and the structure for that will be for
every single paragraph would be like the
article claims that internet damages to
health
however professor uses the statement by
providing results from recent studies
that show that not using Internet can
actually to severe health problems
because of blah blah I don't know guys
I'm just making this up I just wanted to
give you the idea what the text look
like and you will be also given the word
count that they want you to have I would
advise you exceeding this word count
because the best text which get the best
scores actually exceed the words count
by hundred or two hundred words so the
second essay I would advise you to
exceed 300 word limit go out there and
share your thoughts with joyful readers
the second essay gives you freedom for
your own thoughts so you would be given
some problem and you would have to
explain when you think about it
providing clear examples and every
paragraph should stand for for an
argument for example if the topic is
mathematics should no be taught at
school you would have three reasons
refusing that or agreeing with that and
you would have specific examples for
every single paragraph the people who
are checking your writing then we'll
have special guidelines and there is
some advice I wanted to give you the
first advice just to avoid making
mistakes if you want to use some very
beautiful word you think will improve
your score but you know what sure how to
spell it just don't do it just use
simple words and it's better to you know
get lower score because you're using
simple vocabulary
then getting a really low score because
you're making mistakes in every single
interesting word they use it's also
really important to remember that you're
writing an academic test so no
contractions no colloquial phrases if
you want to say don't you have to write
do not not haven't but have note so just
remember just think of it as if you're
writing your college essay in your
professor would be reading it this is
the kind of environment you're in and
every paragraph should be pretty much
the same in terms of volume because
every paragraph represents the thought
and every thought has to be described in
full detail and my experience in essays
I thought I was great i exceeded the
word count I checked everything I
thought it was the best essay I've ever
written because the thoughts was so deep
I was so great you know but then I
scored 27 out of 30 and they don't
really give you a reason why they do
that they just give you 27 but I think
it's Jed is that I didn't use those
interesting and complicated words I use
just simple vocabulary because I wanted
to make sure that I don't do any
mistakes and actually I found for that
as well and that's why I think I scored
27 but it was okay all in all because
117 is way above everything I needed for
the college okay guys I hope this video
is interesting I hope that you enjoyed
listening to my experience and that
you've heard something very important
for yourself as well please subscribe to
my channel if you want to hear how best
geom add how I got into top American
universities and about my life in the
United States bye bye